# Sensor4.0 Part 1: Measurement Value (Version 1.0) 

This is a Submodel template specification for the Asset Administration Shell.

## Scope of the Submodel 

The idea of Submodel Sensor 4.0 is to provide a common representation of all data around industrial sensors, including data that is generated by sensors as well as data that describes the sensor itself and its integration. Submodel Sensor 4.0 is intended as a series of Submodel templates for different aspects of sensor usage. This document as part 1 of the Submodel Sensor 4.0 series is named "Measurement Value" because it focusses on the operation of sensors as data generating devices. It provides a data model for a generic access to sensor data completely independent from the sensor's functional and interface technology. In a part 2 of Submodel Sensor 4.0 it is planned to cover the parameter of sensor devices. More parts are to be defined.

By using the Submodel "Measurement Value" the AAS is intended to be the translating instance between the physical sensor and any data processing system. The sensor provides its measurement values and additional data describing the measurements into the Submodel.

Measurement values are instance related data and they are usually highly dynamic while other data is static (like the unit of the values that usually does not change in the entire lifetime of the sensor) or can be seen as "quasi-static" (like the measurement reference which may change only in rather long intervals).

## About this version

This version is the first version officially published by IDTA

## Difference to prior versions

No prior versions were officially published.

